# SmartBite

SmartBite is an interactive Python application designed to help users achieve their weight goals and manage their daily nutrition. By collecting user data (age, gender, height, current weight, activity level, and desired weight), the app calculates the daily calorie requirement and recommends personalized recipes. Additionally, SmartBite allows users to input the ingredients they already have at home, and the app will suggest recipes that use as many of those ingredients as possible, minimizing the need to buy extra ingredients.

## GitHub Repository
[SmartBite GitHub Repository](https://github.com/cristabacaru/SmartBite.git)

## Technologies Used
- **Frontend:**
  - HTML
  - CSS (Bootstrap)
  - JavaScript
  - Flask
  - Python
- **Database:**
  - SQLite
  - Python
- **Web Scraping:**
  - Python
  - Chromedriver
  - Selenium
  - BeautifulSoup
  - JSON

## How to Run the Application
To run SmartBite on your local machine, follow these steps:

1. **Clone the repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/cristabacaru/SmartBite.git
   cd SmartBite
   ```

2. **Install the required dependencies: It is recommended to use a virtual environment:**
    ```bash
    python3 -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate
    pip install -r requirements.txt

    ```

3. **Run the application:**
    ```bash
    python app.py
    ```

# Team Contributions
=======================
- **Bianca Gorgovan:**
  - Created the web scraper that parses recipe and nutritional data into a JSON file.
  - Developed the calorie recommendation calculator and recipe recommendation algorithm.
  - Worked on the filtering by ingredient algorithm.
#
# Teodora Sintea:
# - Managed the database and ensured that the information retrieved from the scraper was properly stored in SQLite.
# - Retrieved information from the JSON files generated by the scraper and integrated it into the database.
# - Worked on the filtering by ingredient algorithm and linked the database to the frontend.
#
# Cristiana Tabacaru:
# - Managed the frontend, ensuring a smooth user experience and visually appealing interface using HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap.
# - Worked on linking the frontend to the backend.
# - Contributed to the recipe scraper for gathering the necessary data for recipe recommendations.
